---
id: objectives-and-tasks
title: Objectives and Tasks
sidebar_label: Objectives and Tasks
---

## Overview

- Objectives have:
  - A commitment date (usually by quarters)
  - A way to measure its success (key results)

- Tasks have:
  - A priority
  - An associated task-relevant skill
  - An estimated duration
  - Associated with an objective / key result

## Tasks

### Practices

- Ensure there's enough work
- Prioritize
- Do not exceed work in progress limits
- When applicable, coordinate with service desk
- Keep tasks short and simple, divide big tasks

## Backlog Priorities

### Levels

#### Highest

- SLA / Service disruptions
- **Immediate** economic impact for TGX and/or its partners
- Reservation data consistency
- Cannot place booking

:::note
**Examples:**
- Hub is down
- Reservation is confirmed with wrong hotel code or price
- Booking errors
:::

#### High

- **Potential** economic impact for TGX and/or its partners
- Search, quote or content data consistency
- Cannot create a new connection
- Cannot deploy new releases
- Must develop to generate revenue
- High productivity impact technical debt

:::note
**Examples:**
- ChannelX deplays
- Wrong currency in search
- Incorrect destination in HotelList
- Activation process errors
- CI/CD pipeline errors
- Poor service configuration management
:::

#### Focus

Focus are any other tasks within a team.

:::note
**Examples:**
- Add a field to a form 
:::

## Task Types

### Epics

An epic is a large body of work that can be broken down into a number of smaller tasks. Epics can encompass multiple projects and teams, and can even be tracked on multiple boards. Epics are almost always delivered over a set of sprints.

- All Direct Value and Enabler tasks must be part of an epic. 
- We use versions ([Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/)) to track releases within an epic.

### User Story

Summary: A user story is an informal, general explanation of a software feature written from the perspective of the end user. Its purpose is to articulate how a software feature will provide value to the customer.

:::note
User stories do not go to backlogs. They sit in between epics and features, and serve to both PM and SE to break down epics and give context to a feature.
:::

### Feature

It is the actual thing that will be designed, built and delivered to a customer and has a direct value and business impact.

### Bug

A bug is a malfunction of the system, an error or flaw, that causes an incorrect result both in development and production. It is important to catch them before going into production and eliminate or mitigate immediately if found in production. A bug is not a missing functionality, a hard coded parameter or a code smell. For that, we use a feature task or an enabler task. Bugs should be for faulty behavior only.

## Task Chain Example

- **Epic**: Platform V2
   - **User Story**:  
     _"As a user I would like to log-in myself and my team to the platform, and to restrict access to certain functionalities via permissions"_
      - **Feature**:  
      Auth0 integration, social login, RBAC development, etc.
   - **Bug**:  
   Cannot login with Google
   - **Bug**:  
   Cannot access some fields while retrieving credentials
   - **Enabler**:  
   have staging and prod authentication and authorization environments.
   - **Enabler**:  
   Disable login for development and integration testing but keep RBAC management in local environment.
