---
id: agile-practices
title: Agile Practices
sidebar_label: Agile Practices
---

## Overview

Teams must adopt [Lean Development](https://www.planview.com/resources/articles/lkdc-principles-lean-development/) principles. Specifically:

- **Eliminate waste**:  
  Spacially time consuming and high resource tasks (eg: manual and repetitive work) that don't add value
  to the customer. Please do not confuse tech debt tasks as waste, because they are the total opposite:
  they are carried out to enable teams to eliminate waste.
- **Defer commitment**:  
  Not plan (in excessive detail) for months in advance
  Not commit to ideas or projects without a full understanding of the business requirements
  Constantly be collecting and analyzing information regarding any important decisions

## Must Follow Practices 

### Task Tracking

- Every task that takes longer than 40 minutes must be tracked.
- Optionally, every task that takes longer than 10 minutes should be tracked.
- Any other tasks must be followed through Slack or mail (trying to avoid mail as much as possible).

### Measure

- **Lead Time**:
  Lead time is the period between a new task's appearance in your workflow (selected for development)
  and its final departure from the system (last stage before done).

- **Cycle Time**:  
  Cycle time begins at the moment when the new task enters “in progress” stage and somebody is actually working on it.

- **# Resolved/Unresolved Issues**:  
  Measured by span of iteration.

### Task Duration

Tasks should be sized in order to be able to finish them in less than 48hs for each stage. That does not mean all tasks
must be finished in that time frame, but it's a target goal.

### WIP Limits

Work in progress (WIP) limits restrict the maximum amount of work items in the different stages (kanban board columns) of the workflow. The implementation of WIP limits allows you to complete single work items faster by helping your team focus only on current tasks. If WIP limit is exceeded, the whole team must work together to unblock the cluttered tasks.

Teams should use WIP limits that maximize throughput of tasks.

### Left to Right Workflows

Tasks always move forward. Tasks can be broken down from its inital scope to move a part forward or if sub-tasks arise from the original.

:::note
**OUR MOTO: STOP STARTING AND START FINISHING**
:::

### Swimlanes

Kanban swimlanes are lines that split horizontally a Kanban board into two or more parts. They are useful for all teams but prove to be extremely handy for larger teams that have to visualize not only their work stages but also the different types of tasks that flow through the work process. As a result, the Kanban board stays nicely organized, uncluttered with homogenous work and thus brings more clarity to the workflow.

We use swimlanes to divide our tasks in three categories:

- **Expedites**:  
  Tasks with a highest or high priority **with a business or customer impact**
- **Direct Value**:  
  Tasks that provide a direct customer impact upon delivered
- **Enablers**:  
  Any other task that does not provide a direct value but "enables" us to be more efficient. Usually enablers tasks a tech debt related.

Using swimlanes we can have a clear overview of priorities in a board.

### Kanban Board Stages

| Name                     | Showing on board | Category    | Description                                                                |
| :----------------------- | :--------------- | :---------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Backlog                  | No               | TO DO       | Pool of potential actionable tasks prioritized and waiting for development |
| Selected for Development | Yes              | TO DO       | Tasks selected for development in an iteration                             |
| In Progress              | Yes              | IN PROGRESS | Tasks being worked on                                                      |
| Awaiting                 | Yes              | IN PROGRESS | Tasks idle waiting on some input                                           |
| Review / QA              | Yes              | IN PROGRESS | Tasks being reviewed or tested                                             |
| Done                     | Yes              | DONE        | Finished tasks or rejected tasks                                           |

### Impediments Management

- Awaiting is a parking stage which denotes idle time of a task. Sometimes this idle time is due because
  customer feedback is expected and it is important to track these situations.
- Internal impediments must be flagged and be prioritized.

### Daily Meetings

A daily stand-up meeting is a short (no mora than 15 minutes) team status check, held every day at a set time. It purpose is to enhance collaboration and push results forward. They should focus on:

- What did I do yesterday that helped get things done?
- What will I do today to help get things done?
- Do I see any impediment that prevents me or the Development Team from getting things done?

### Bias for Action

Having a bias for action means you’re not afraid to make decisions and take action, even when (especially when) you face uncertainty. Put yourself out there and take a risk. There's no blame or shame in trying, but there is when an action is not taken.

- When faced with a tough decision that will help you and your team move forward, you don’t avoid that decision. Don't be afraid to step up and make the call. 
- You encourage this same behavior in your team. You let them know you’ll stand behind them if they take a risk that doesn’t work out.
- If you’re missing some key piece of information, you try to get it as quickly as possible. If you can’t, you’re not afraid to move ahead without it.
- You foster an environment of action bias by responding promptly to colleagues looking for information, and always deliver on your promises.
- You roll up your sleeves and remove obstacles, even when it’s “not your job.”
- Still stuck? You ask for help. You don’t let yourself or your team be stuck for days at a time. 